Evaluation metric
Submissions are scored based on the quadratic weighted kappa, which measures the agreement between two outcomes. This metric typically varies from 0 (random agreement) to 1 (complete agreement). In the event that there is less agreement than expected by chance, the metric may go below 0.

The outcomes in this competition are grouped into 4 groups (labeled accuracy_group in the data):

3: the assessment was solved on the first attempt
2: the assessment was solved on the second attempt
1: the assessment was solved after 3 or more attempts
0: the assessment was never solved

The quadratic weighted kappa is calculated as follows. First, an N x N histogram matrix O is constructed, such that Oi,j corresponds to the number of installation_ids i (actual) that received a predicted value j. An N-by-N matrix of weights, w, is calculated based on the difference between actual and predicted values

An N-by-N histogram matrix of expected outcomes, E, is calculated assuming that there is no correlation between values.  This is calculated as the outer product between the actual histogram vector of outcomes and the predicted histogram vector, normalized such that E and O have the same sum

Data

train.csv & test.csv
These are the main data files which contain the gameplay events.

event_id - Randomly generated unique identifier for the event type. Maps to event_id column in specs table.
game_session - Randomly generated unique identifier grouping events within a single game or video play session.
timestamp - Client-generated datetime
event_data - Semi-structured JSON formatted string containing the events parameters. Default fields are: event_count, event_code, and game_time; otherwise fields are determined by the event type.
installation_id - Randomly generated unique identifier grouping game sessions within a single installed application instance.
event_count - Incremental counter of events within a game session (offset at 1). Extracted from event_data.
event_code - Identifier of the event 'class'. Unique per game, but may be duplicated across games. E.g. event code '2000' always identifies the 'Start Game' event for all games. Extracted from event_data.
game_time - Time in milliseconds since the start of the game session. Extracted from event_data.
title - Title of the game or video.
type - Media type of the game or video. Possible values are: 'Game', 'Assessment', 'Activity', 'Clip'.
world - The section of the application the game or video belongs to. Helpful to identify the educational curriculum goals of the media. Possible values are: 'NONE' (at the app's start screen), TREETOPCITY' (Length/Height), 'MAGMAPEAK' (Capacity/Displacement), 'CRYSTALCAVES' (Weight).

specs.csv
This file gives the specification of the various event types.

event_id - Global unique identifier for the event type. Joins to event_id column in events table.
info - Description of the event.
args - JSON formatted string of event arguments. Each argument contains:
name - Argument name.
type - Type of the argument (string, int, number, object, array).
info - Description of the argument.

train_labels.csv
This file demonstrates how to compute the ground truth for the assessments in the training set.

